# WalmartSalesPrediction
The problem we intend to work on mainly pertains to analyzing the time series data and forecasting the future trends. Time Series Analysis (TSA) is a way of analyzing a sequence of data points collected over an interval of time. The data points are recorded at consistent intervals of time rather than recording data points intermittently or randomly. It helps us study how data (variable) revolves with respect to time and throws useful trends and patterns that help businesses strategize their future goals. Industries like finance, retail, health, economics are heavily dependent on TSA and it would be very interesting to understand the
practices adopted by these sectors to make predictions and how this analysis makes huge impacts on the economy.
We are looking at the Walmart Store Sales Forecasting problem wherein the dataset contains historical sales data for 45 Walmart stores located in different regions. Each store contains many departments and the task in hand is to project the sales in each department in each store. To add to this problem, selected holiday markdown events are included in the dataset. These markdowns are known to affect sales, but it is challenging to predict which departments are affected and the extent of the impact.
Our solution to solve this problem not only looks at the time series modeling techniques but also experiments with the regression techniques and see if they are able to capture the trends in this data and forecast future trends. Along with trying the classic regression techniques like Linear Regression and its variants, we have also experimented with decision trees and ensemble techniques. Then we have tried approaching this problem using time series modeling techniques like Auto ARIMA and Holt-Winters Method.
